This is a .


The differences between the programming languages C++ and Java can be traced to their , as they have different design goals.
The different goals in the development of C++ and Java resulted in different principles and design trade-offs between the languages. The differences are as follows:
A rich amount of third-party libraries exist for GUI and other functions like: .
Both C++ and Java provide facilities for , respectively. Although they were created to solve similar kinds of problems, and have similar syntax, they are quite different.
An example comparing .
In addition to running a compiled Java program, computers running Java applications generally must also run the  (JVM), while compiled C++ programs can be run without external applications. Early versions of Java were significantly outperformed by statically compiled languages such as C++. This is because the program statements of these two closely related languages may compile to a few machine instructions with C++, while compiling into several byte codes involving several machine instructions each when interpreted by a JVM. For example:
Since performance optimizing is a very complex issue, it is very difficult to quantify the performance difference between C++ and Java in general terms, and most benchmarks are unreliable and biased. Given the very different natures of the languages, definitive qualitative differences are also difficult to draw. In a nutshell, there are inherent inefficiencies and hard limits on optimizing in Java, given that it heavily relies on flexible high-level abstractions, however, the use of a powerful JIT compiler (as in modern JVM implementations) can mitigate some issues. In any case, if the inefficiencies of Java are too great, compiled C or C++ code can be called from Java via the JNI.
Some inefficiencies that are inherent to the Java language include, mainly:
However, there are a number of benefits to Java's design, some realized, some only theorized:
Also, some performance problems occur in C++:
The C++ language is defined by 
The C++ language evolves via an open steering committee called the C++ Standards Committee. The committee is composed of the creator of C++ , and other prominent figures, including many representatives of industries and user-groups (i.e., the stake-holders). Being an open committee, anyone is free to join, participate, and contribute proposals for upcoming releases of the standard and technical specifications. The committee now aims to release a new standard every few years, although in the past strict review processes and discussions have meant longer delays between publication of new standards (1998, 2003, and 2011).
The Java language is defined by the  a book which is published by Oracle.
The Java language continuously evolves via a process called the —which is actively engaged into the enhancement of the language, by sending public requests - the Java Specification Requests - which must pass formal and public reviews before they get integrated into the language.
The lack of a firm standard for Java and the somewhat more volatile nature of its specifications have been a constant source of criticism by stake-holders wanting more stability and conservatism in the addition of new language and library features. In contrast, the C++ committee also receives constant criticism, for the opposite reason, i.e., being too strict and conservative, and taking too long to release new versions.
"C++" is not a trademark of any company or organization and is not owned by any individual.
