In  location information (location in time).


The first DWT was invented by Hungarian mathematician 
  
    
      
        
          
          
            
          
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
          
          
            
          
        
        
        
      
    
    
  
 differences and a final sum.
The most commonly used set of discrete wavelet transforms was formulated by the Belgian mathematician 
The dual-tree complex wavelet transform (ℂWT) is a relatively recent enhancement to the discrete wavelet transform (DWT), with important additional properties: It is nearly shift invariant and directionally selective in two and higher dimensions. It achieves this with a redundancy factor of only 
  
    
      
        
          
          
            
          
        
      
    
    
  

Other forms of discrete wavelet transform include the  is another form.
The Haar DWT illustrates the desirable properties of wavelets in general. First, it can be performed in 
  
    
      
        
        
        
        
      
    
    
  
 (FFT).
Due to the rate-change operators in the filter bank, the discrete WT is not time-invariant but actually very sensitive to the alignment of the signal in time. To address the time-varying problem of wavelet transforms, Mallat and Zhong proposed a new algorithm for wavelet representation of a signal, which is invariant to time shifts.
The discrete wavelet transform has a huge number of applications in science, engineering, mathematics and computer science. Most notably, it is used for 
It is shown that discrete wavelet transform (discrete in scale and shift, and continuous in time) is successfully implemented as analog filter bank in biomedical signal processing for design of low-power pacemakers and also in ultra-wideband (UWB) wireless communications.
To illustrate the differences and similarities between the discrete wavelet transform with the .
The DFT has orthogonal basis ():
while the DWT with Haar wavelets for length 4 data has orthogonal basis in the rows of:
(To simplify notation, whole numbers are used, so the bases are .)
Preliminary observations include:
Decomposing the sequence with respect to these bases yields:
The DWT demonstrates the localization: the (1,1,1,1) term gives the average signal value, the (1,1,–1,–1) places the signal in the left side of the domain, and the (1,–1,0,0) places it at the left side of the left side, and truncating at any stage yields a downsampled version of the signal:
The DFT, by contrast, expresses the sequence by the interference of waves of various frequencies – thus truncating the series yields a  version of the series:
Notably, the middle approximation (2-term) differs. From the frequency domain perspective, this is a better approximation, but from the time domain perspective it has drawbacks – it exhibits 
  
    
      
        
        
          
        
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
        
          
        
        
      
    
    
  
 for the other values.
This illustrates the kinds of trade-offs between these transforms, and how in some respects the DWT provides preferable behavior, particularly for the modeling of transients.
The DWT of a signal 
  
    
      
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
      
    
    
  
 of the two:
The signal is also decomposed simultaneously using a 
  
    
      
        
      
    
    
  
.
However, since half the frequencies of the signal have now been removed, half the samples can be discarded according to Nyquist’s rule. The filter output of the low-pass filter 
  
    
      
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
      
    
    
  
 with half the cut-off frequency of the previous one,i.e.:
This decomposition has halved the time resolution since only half of each filter output characterises the signal. However, each output has half the frequency band of the input, so the frequency resolution has been doubled.
With the 
  
    
      
        
      
    
    
  

the above summation can be written more concisely.
However computing a complete convolution 
  
    
      
        
        
        
      
    
    
  
 with subsequent downsampling would waste computation time.
The  is an optimization where these two computations are interleaved.
This decomposition is repeated to further increase the frequency resolution and the approximation coefficients decomposed with high and low pass filters and then down-sampled. This is represented as a binary tree with nodes representing a sub-space with a different time-frequency localisation. The tree is known as a .
At each level in the above diagram the signal is decomposed into low and high frequencies. Due to the decomposition process the input signal must be a multiple of 
  
    
      
        
          
          
            
          
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
      
    
    
  
 is the number of levels.
For example a signal with 32 samples, frequency range 0 to 
  
    
      
        
          
          
            
          
        
      
    
    
  
 and 3 levels of decomposition, 4 output scales are produced:
The filterbank implementation of wavelets can be interpreted as computing the wavelet coefficients of a 
  
    
      
        
        
        
        
      
    
    
  
. In the case of the discrete wavelet transform, the mother wavelet is shifted and scaled by powers of two

  
    
      
        
          
          
            
            
            
          
        
        
        
        
        
        
          
            
            
              
                
                
                  
                
              
            
          
        
        
        
          
          
            
              
                
                
                
                
                  
                  
                    
                  
                
              
              
                
                
                  
                
              
            
          
          
        
      
    
    
  

where 
  
    
      
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
      
    
    
  
 is the shift parameter, both which are integers.
Recall that the wavelet coefficient 
  
    
      
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
        
        
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
        
        
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
        
        
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
          
          
            
          
        
      
    
    
  
. In the case of a child wavelet in the discrete family above,

  
    
      
        
          
          
            
            
          
        
        
        
          
          
            
            
          
          
            
          
        
        
        
        
        
        
          
            
            
              
                
                
                  
                
              
            
          
        
        
        
          
          
            
              
                
                
                
                
                  
                  
                    
                  
                
              
              
                
                
                  
                
              
            
          
          
        
        
        
      
    
    
  

Now fix 
  
    
      
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
          
          
            
            
          
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
          
          
            
            
          
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
        
        
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
        
        
        
        
        
          
            
            
              
                
                
                  
                
              
            
          
        
        
        
          
          
            
              
                
                
              
              
                
                
                  
                
              
            
          
          
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
        
        
          
          
            
          
        
        
        
          
          
            
            
          
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
          
          
            
          
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
        
        
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
        
        
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
        
        
        
      
    
    
  
.
As an example, consider the discrete 
  
    
      
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
        
        
        
        
        
          
            
            
              
            
          
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
      
    
    
  
, which is, indeed, the highpass decomposition filter for the discrete Haar wavelet transform.
The filterbank implementation of the Discrete Wavelet Transform takes only .
Note that if 
  
    
      
        
        
        
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
        
        
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
        
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
        
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
        
        
        
      
    
    
  

which leads to an  expansion of the above relation.
As an example, the discrete 
  
    
      
        
        
        
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
        
        
        
      
    
    
  
 are constant length&#160;2.
The .
Unlike the DWT, it has a specific scale – it starts from an 8×8 block, and it ) at the early stages, in return for simpler implementation.
In its simplest form, the DWT is remarkably easy to compute.
The :
Complete Java code for a 1-D and 2-D DWT using  (archived 5 March 2012).
This figure shows an example of applying the above code to compute the Haar wavelet coefficients on a sound waveform. This example highlights two key properties of the wavelet transform:
