Written records of the 
Much of  that started in 1927.
Between eras of multiple kingdoms and warlordism, .
In the 21 centuries from 206 BC until AD 1912, routine administrative tasks were handled by a special elite, the , expansion, and foreign contact, form the basis of the modern culture of China.
What is now China was inhabited by 
The Neolithic age in China can be traced back to about 10,000 BC.
Early evidence for proto-Chinese , which was also centered on the Yellow River from about 3000 BC to 2000 BC.
Bronze artifacts have been found at the 
The 
Although there is disagreement as to whether the dynasty actually existed, there is some archaeological evidence pointing to its possible existence. Writing in the late 2nd century BC, Sima Qian dated the founding of the Xia dynasty to around 2200 BC, but this date has not been corroborated. Most archaeologists now connect the Xia to excavations at  bronze vessel writings, the Xia era remains poorly understood.
According to mythology, the dynasty ended around 1600 BC as a consequence of the .
Archaeological findings providing evidence for the existence of the Shang dynasty, c. 1600–1046 BC, are divided into two sets. The first set, from the earlier Shang period, comes from sources at 
31 kings reigned over the Shang dynasty. During their reign, according to the 
Chinese historians living in later periods were accustomed to the notion of one dynasty succeeding another, but the actual political situation in early China is known to have been much more complicated. Hence, as some scholars of China suggest, the Xia and the Shang can possibly refer to political entities that existed concurrently, just as the early Zhou is known to have existed at the same time as the Shang.
Although written records found at Anyang confirm the existence of the Shang dynasty,
The Zhou dynasty (1046 BC to approximately 256 BC) was the longest-lasting dynasty in Chinese history. By the end of the 2nd millennium BC, the Zhou dynasty began to emerge in the .
The king of Zhou at this time invoked the concept of the ) ruled over all the other gods, and it decided who would rule China. It was believed that a ruler had lost the Mandate of Heaven when natural disasters occurred in great number, and when, more realistically, the sovereign had apparently lost his concern for the people. In response, the royal house would be overthrown, and a new house would rule, having been granted the Mandate of Heaven.
The Zhou initially moved their capital west to an area near modern  valley. This would be the first of many population migrations from north to south in Chinese history.
In the 8th century BC, power became decentralized during the . This marks the second major phase of the Zhou dynasty: the Eastern Zhou. The Spring and Autumn period is marked by a falling apart of the central Zhou power. In each of the hundreds of states that eventually arose, local strongmen held most of the political power and continued their subservience to the Zhou kings in name only. Some local leaders even started using royal titles for themselves. China now consisted of hundreds of states, some of them only as large as a village with a fort.
As the era continued, larger and more powerful states annexed or claimed suzerainty over smaller ones. By the 6th century BC most small states had disappeared from being annexed and just a few large and powerful principalities dominated China. Some southern states, such as Chu and Wu, claimed independence from the Zhou, who undertook wars against some of them (Wu and Yue). Many new cities were established in this period and Chinese culture was slowly shaped.
Once all these powerful rulers had firmly established themselves within their respective dominions, the bloodshed focused more fully on interstate conflict in the Warring States period, which began when the three remaining élite families in the Jin state – Zhao, Wei and Han – partitioned the state. Many famous individuals such as  lived during this chaotic period.
The  were founded, partly in response to the changing political world. The first two philosophical thoughts would have an enormous influence on Chinese culture.
After further political consolidation, seven prominent states remained by the end of 5th century BC, and the years in which these few states battled each other are known as the  king until 256 BC, he was largely a figurehead and held little real power.
Numerous developments were made during this period in culture and mathematics, examples include an important literary achievement, the 
As neighboring territories of these warring states, including areas of modern  (province and county, 省縣/省县).
The final expansion in this period began during the reign of  (Qin Shi Huang).
The Imperial China Period can be divided into three subperiods: Early, Middle, and Late.
Major events in the Early subperiod include the Qin unification of China and their replacement by the Han, the First Split followed by the Jin unification, and the loss of north China. The Middle subperiod was marked by the Sui unification and their supplementation by the Tang, the Second Split, and the Song unification. The Late subperiod included the Yuan, Ming, and Qing dynasties.
Historians often refer to the period from Qin dynasty to the end of . This would be the impetus behind the later Han synthesis incorporating the more moderate schools of political governance.
Major contributions of the Qin include the concept of a centralized government, the unification of the legal code, development of the written language, measurement, and currency of China after the tribulations of the Spring and Autumn and Warring States periods. Even something as basic as the length of axles for carts—which need to match ruts in the roads—had to be made uniform to ensure a viable trading system throughout the empire. Also as part of its centralization, the Qin connected the northern border walls of the states it defeated, making the first .
A major Qin innovation, and had to know Confucian philosophy. Historian Wing-Tsit Chan concludes that:
After Emperor Qin Shi Huang's unnatural death due to the consumption of  Despite the short 15-year duration of the Qin dynasty, it was immensely influential on China and the structure of future Chinese dynasties.
The 
After the initial  were discouraged.
 Valley were formally incorporated into the empire.
Emperor Wu also dispatched a 
After .
In AD 9, the usurper  by an enraged peasant mob in AD 23.
 were recorded in Chinese sources, coming from the sea route in AD 166, and a second one in AD 284.
The Eastern Han dynasty was one of the .
By the 2nd century, the empire declined amidst land acquisitions, invasions, and feuding between .
After  proclaimed their independence, leading China into the Three Kingdoms period. This period was characterized by a gradual decentralization of the state that had existed during the Qin and Han dynasties, and an increase in the power of great families.
In 265, the  overthrew the Wei and later unified the country in 280, but this union was short-lived.
The Jin dynasty was severely weakened by  became emperor and continued the dynasty, now known as the Eastern Jin, which held southern China for another century. Prior to this move, historians refer to the Jin dynasty as the Western Jin.
Northern China fragmented into a series of  Basin and Delta.
In the early 5th century, China entered a period known as the Northern and Southern dynasties, in which parallel regimes ruled the northern and southern halves of the country. In the south, the Eastern Jin gave way to the  (modern Nanjing) as the capital. They held off attacks from the north and preserved many aspects of Chinese civilization, while northern barbarian regimes began to sinify.
In the north, the last of the Sixteen Kingdoms was extinguished in 439 by the . These regimes were dominated by Xianbei or Han Chinese who had married into Xianbei families.
Despite the division of the country, Buddhism spread throughout the land. In southern China, fierce debates about whether  reached a compromise and became more tolerant of each other.
In 589, the  united China once again, ending a prolonged period of division in Chinese history. In the nearly four centuries between the Han and Sui dynasties, the country was united for only 24 years during the Western Jin.
The , improved defense and expansion of the Great Wall, and official support for Buddhism.
Just like the Qin, the Sui overused their resources and collapsed in just a short period of its existence, and the next subsequent Chinese dynasty ushered in another  in China's history.
According to historian Mark Edward Lewis:
The 
The second emperor,  linked the political heartland in Chang'an to the agricultural and economic centers in the eastern and southern parts of the empire.
Underlying the prosperity of the early Tang dynasty was a strong centralized bureaucracy with efficient policies. The government was organized as ". These practices, which matured in the Tang dynasty, were continued by the later dynasties, with some modifications.
Under the Tang " had replaced conscription, and land was continuously falling into the hands of private owners.
The dynasty continued to flourish under the rule of Empress .
At the zenith of prosperity of the empire, the . Externally, former submissive states raided the empire and the vast border territories were irreversibly lost for subsequent centuries. Nevertheless, civil society recovered and thrived amidst the weakened imperial bureaucracy.
In late Tang period, there were ineffective and corrupt rulers and officials in the imperial court allowing regional warlords to trigger widespread revolts. The most catastrophic was the .
The period of political disunity between the Tang and the Song, known as the  rulers coexisted in south and western China over the period, cumulatively constituted the "Ten Kingdoms".
Amidst political chaos in the north, the strategic  in 960, which would eventually annihilated the remains of the "Ten Kingdoms" and reunified China.
In 960, the  from 1032 to 1227.
Aiming to recover the strategic .
Within the  in 1279.
Despite its military weakness, the Song dynasty is widely considered to be the high point of classical Chinese civilization. The .
The Song Dynasty was considered to be the golden age of great advancements in science and technology of China, thanks to innovative scholar-officials such as  were all invented during the Song Dynasty.
There was court intrigue between the political reformers and conservatives, led by the chancellors .
The  in 1161.
The advances in civilization during the Song dynasty came to an abrupt end following the devastating  in 1279.
The  of the successive regimes that unified China mainland.
After the peace treaty in , which eventually brought the downfall of the dynasty.
While the Mongol rulers of the Yuan Dynasty adopted substantially to Chinese culture, their  Dynasties.
Before the Mongol invasion, Chinese dynasties reported approximately 120 million inhabitants; after the conquest had been completed in 1279, the 1300 census reported roughly 60 million people.
Throughout the Yuan dynasty, there was some general sentiment among the populace against the Mongol dominance. Yet rather than the nationalist cause, it was mainly strings of natural disasters, and incompetence governance that triggered widespread peasant uprisings since the 1340s. After the  in China.
The  reign onward.
Urbanization increased as the population grew and as the division of labor grew more complex. Large urban centers, such as , also contributed to the growth of private industry. In particular, small-scale industries grew up, often specializing in paper, silk, cotton, and porcelain goods. For the most part, however, relatively small urban centers with markets proliferated around the country. Town markets mainly traded food, with some necessary manufactures such as pins or oil.
Despite the .
, with declining government control, commerce, trade and private industries revived.
The dynasty had a strong and complex central government that unified and controlled the empire. The emperor's role became more autocratic, although  (petitions and recommendations to the throne), imperial edicts in reply, reports of various kinds, and tax records. It was this same bureaucracy that later prevented the Ming government from being able to adapt to changes in society, and eventually led to its decline.
The Yongle Emperor strenuously tried to extend China's influence beyond its borders by demanding other rulers send ambassadors to China to present tribute. A large navy was built, including four-masted ships displacing 1,500&#160;tons. A standing army of 1 million troops (some estimate as many as 1.9 million reached its current splendor. It was also during these centuries that the potential of south China came to be fully exploited. New crops were widely cultivated and industries such as those producing porcelain and textiles flourished.
In 1449  being built. Most of what remains of the Great Wall of China today was either built or repaired by the Ming. The brick and granite work was enlarged, the watchtowers were redesigned, and cannons were placed along its length.
At sea, the Ming became increasingly isolationist after the death of the Yongle Emperor. The treasure voyages which sailed Indian Ocean were discontinued, and the  in 1662, after the fall of the Ming dynasty.
In 1556, during the rule of the  killed about 830,000 people, the deadliest earthquake of all time.
The .
The  Nevertheless, the Manchus adopted the Confucian norms of traditional Chinese government in their rule and were considered a Chinese dynasty.
The Manchus enforced a 'queue order,' forcing the Han Chinese to adopt the Manchu  system that provided the basic framework for the Qing military organization. Bannermen could not undertake trade or manual labor; they had to petition to be removed from banner status. They were considered a form of nobility and were given preferential treatment in terms of annual pensions, land, and allotments of cloth.
Over the next half-century, all areas previously under the .
By the end of .
In the 19th century the empire was internally stagnant and externally threatened by western powers. The defeat by the  with other western powers continued even after the fall of the Qing dynasty.
Internally the 
In response to calamities within the empire and threats from imperialism, the  in a military coup.
At the turn of the 20th century, the violent  ended the war.
Frustrated by the Qing court's resistance to reform and by China's weakness, young officials, military officers, and students began to advocate the overthrow of the Qing dynasty and the creation of a republic. They were inspired by the revolutionary ideas of  on 12 March 1912. The Xinhai Revolution ended 2,000 years of dynastic rule in China.
After the success of the overthrow of the Qing Dynasty,  abdicate (a decision Sun would later regret). Over the next few years, Yuan proceeded to abolish the national and provincial assemblies, and declared himself emperor in late 1915. Yuan's imperial ambitions were fiercely opposed by his subordinates; faced with the prospect of rebellion, he abdicated in March 1916, and died in June of that year.
Yuan's death in 1916 left a power vacuum in China; the republican government was all but shattered. This ushered in the , during which much of the country was ruled by shifting coalitions of competing provincial military leaders.
In 1919, the  stimulated by the May Fourth Movement waxed strong throughout the 1920s and 1930s. According to Ebrey:
The discrediting of liberal Western philosophy amongst leftist Chinese intellectuals led to more radical lines of thought inspired by the Russian Revolution, and supported by agents of the Comintern sent to China by Moscow. This created the seeds for the irreconcilable conflict between the left and right in China that would dominate Chinese history for the rest of the century.
In the 1920s, Sun Yat-sen established a revolutionary base in south China, and set out to unite the fragmented nation. With assistance from the  (Mao Tse-tung).
The bitter struggle between the KMT and the CPC continued, openly or clandestinely, through the 14-year-long Japanese occupation of various parts of the country (1931–1945). The two Chinese parties nominally formed a united front to oppose the Japanese in 1937, during the 
Following the defeat of Japan in 1945, the war between the Nationalist government forces and the CPC resumed, after failed attempts at reconciliation and a negotiated settlement. By 1949, the CPC had established control over most of the country 
Until the early 1970s, the Republic of China was recognized as the sole legitimate government of China by the United Nations and most Western nations, refusing to recognize the People's Republic of China on account of the  until the late 1980s, with the stated goal of being vigilant against Communist infiltration and preparing to retake mainland China. Therefore, political dissent was not tolerated.
Since the 1990s, the ROC went from a one-party rule to a multi party system thanks to a series of democratic and governmental reforms that was implemented in Taiwan. .
Major combat in the 
The PRC was shaped by a , led to a major upheaval in Chinese society.
In 1972, at the peak of the  in place of the Republic of China, with permanent membership of the Security Council.
A power struggle followed Mao's death in 1976. The  leader over the next few years.
Deng Xiaoping was the  on 4 December 1982.
In 1989 the death of former general secretary " was seen worldwide.
CPC general secretary and PRC President  in 2001.
Although the PRC needs economic growth to spur its development, the government began to worry that rapid economic growth was degrading the country's resources and environment. Another concern is that certain sectors of society are not sufficiently benefiting from the PRC's economic development; one example of this is the wide gap between urban and rural areas. As a result, under former CPC general secretary and President 
