				. Sun released most of its Java source code as free software in May 2007, so it can now almost be considered a free Java implementation.
Java implementations include compilers, runtimes, class libraries, etc.
Advocates of free and open source software refer to free or open source .
Some advocates in this movement prefer not to use the term "Java" as it has  issues associated with it. Hence, even though it is a "free Java movement", the term "free Java runtimes" is avoided by them.


Probably the first free project to offer substantial parts of Java platform functionality was guavac, which began some time before November 1995.
Since then, the 
Examples of free .
 for Java. Most free runtimes use GNU Classpath as their class library.
In May 2005, , which was at the time incompatible with all existing free Java implementations.
Another event in May 2005 was the announcement that  2.0 would depend on Java features which free software implementations couldn't provide. Following controversy, OpenOffice.org adopted a guideline requiring it to work with free Java implementations.
Notable applications that already worked with free software Java implementations before November 2006 include , both of which work when compiled with GCJ.
On 13 November 2006, Sun released its compiler, 
As of September 2007, as well as javac, Sun has released the code of  as free software.
Following their promise to release a fully buildable  in the JDK, Sun will continue to use that code in commercial releases until it's replaced by fully functional free and open-source alternatives.
As of May 2008, the only part of the Class library that remains proprietary (4% as of May 2007 for OpenJDK 7, 
Since the first May 2007 release, , with the help of the community, has released as free software (or replaced with free-software alternatives) almost all the encumbered code:
Because of these previously encumbered components, it was not possible to build 
As of March 2008, the  Some of the stated reasons for this change are:
In June 2008, it was announced that 
In September 2013, Azul Systems released Zulu, a free, open source build of 
