. Categories help readers to find, and navigate around, a subject area, to see pages sorted by title, and to thus find article relationships.
Categories are normally found at the bottom of an article page. Clicking a category name brings up a category page listing the articles (or other pages) that have been added to that particular category. There may also be a section listing the  of that category. The subcategorization feature makes it possible to organize categories into tree-like structures to aid navigation.
The term 


The MediaWiki software maintains tables of . The categories to which a page belongs appear in a box at the bottom of the page.
A category is usually associated with a .
A page belongs to a category if the page's wikimarkup contains a declaration for that category. A category declaration takes the form  below.
A category name can be any string that would be a legitimate . It cannot begin with a lower-case letter. If the category name given in a category declaration begins with a lower-case letter, then it is interpreted as if it were capitalized.
In Wikipedia, it is customary to place category declarations at the end of the wikimarkup, but before any .
When a page has been added to one or more categories, a categories box appears at the bottom of the page (or possibly elsewhere, if a non-default  gadget, the categories box will also provide links to quickly add, remove, or modify category declarations on the page, without having to edit the whole page.
Hidden categories are not displayed, except as described below under .
A "category page" is any page in the Category namespace. They each act as a category, and are termed a "category". The category page has one section titled  in the Category namespace.
A category page can be edited like any other page. However, when it is displayed, the editable part of the page is followed by automatically generated lists of pages belonging to the category, as follows:
The items in the lists all link to the pages concerned; in the case of the images this applies both to the image itself and to the text below it (the name of the image).
For the way in which the lists are ordered, see  below. The first and second lists are divided into sections, according to the first character of the sort key. These initial characters are displayed above the sections. To suppress these, make all sort keys start with a space.
A category page can only display a limited number of items (currently 200). If more pages belong to the category, there will be a link to the next ones.
]]" syntax.
To link to a category page }} template, and others listed on its documentation page, may sometimes be helpful.)
By default, a page is sorted under the first letter of its full name . English Wikipedia groups accented characters together with their unaccented version, so pages starting with À, Á, Ä, will be listed under heading A. Sorting is case-insensitive, so "ABC" comes after "Abacus".
Unlike at , a space is treated as a space (coming before all other characters), not as an underscore.
The English Wikipedia has . This means a page whose title begins with a number will be sorted according to the numeric value of the number (even if it is multiple digits). Thus "9 dogs", "25 dogs", and "112 dogs" will all appear under the "0–9" heading in numeric order. If the number includes a comma, space, or period, the sorting algorithm will only consider the part of the number before the separator.
Each of the three lists (subcategories, pages, media files) is arranged in the order explained above (except that, in the subcategories list, the namespace indicator "Category:" is not considered). If an item ought to be positioned within a list on the basis of an alternative name (sort key) for that item, then this can be specified in the category tag that places the item in the list:
For example to add an article called  to the category "People" and have the article sorted by "Einstein, Albert", you would type:
Unlike with a  (which uses the same syntax), the sort key itself is not displayed to readers. It affects only the order in which pages are listed on the category page.
It is useful to document the system being used for sort keys on the category page. For guidelines about the use of sort keys on Wikipedia, see .
It is possible to set a default sort key which is different from :
In the case of multiple default sort key tags, the last DEFAULTSORT on the final rendering of a page applies for all categories, regardless of the position of the category tags. This also means that a DEFAULTSORT tag included from a template is not effective if another DEFAULTSORT tag occurs later on the page, even if the later DEFAULTSORT tag is also "hidden" (included by another template).
When the }} template. The feature is mostly used to prevent project maintenance categories from showing up to ordinary readers on article pages.
However, hidden categories  displayed (although listed as hidden):
Hidden categories are automatically added to .
For guidelines on the hiding of categories on Wikipedia, see .

A template can be used to add pages to a category, usually by placing the category link inside ). When the template is transcluded into the page, the category link becomes active, and the page is added to the category page. This is useful for categories that have high turnover or many pages included, like cleanup categories.
Changes to the template, however, may not be reflected immediately on the category page. When you edit an article to add a category tag directly, the list of category members is updated immediately when the page is saved. When a category link is contained in a template, however, this does not happen immediately: instead, whenever a template is edited, all the pages that transclude it are put into the  to a page will allow it to jump the queue and be immediately recached.
To add the template itself to the category page as well, omit the "includeonly" tags. To add the template to a category  (the latter allows recategorizing the template without editing it, which is helpful if it is protected, or so complicated that mere mortals hesitate to touch it).
 can be used to make the transcluded categories, or the sort key used in them, dependent on other variables, notably PAGENAME.
On Wikipedia it is not recommended that templates be used to populate ordinary content categories of articles. See  in the categorization guideline.
Redirect pages can be categorized. The category tag must be placed after the redirect link. On a category page, redirects are listed in italics.
For conventions on the categorization of redirects in Wikipedia, see .
.
Do not create intercategory redirects other than with a  for more on category redirects.
In addition to browsing through hierarchies of categories, it is possible to use the search tool to find specific articles in specific categories. To search for articles in a specific category, type  in the search box.
An "OR" can be added to join the contents of one category with the contents of another. For example, enter
to return all pages that belong to either (or both) of the categories, as .
Note that using search to find categories will not find articles which have been categorized using templates. This feature also doesn't return pages in subcategories.

For a category, the " are listed.
Notice that "Related Changes" does  list recent changes to pages linked from the editable part of the category page (as it would normally, with a non-category page). (If a workaround is required for this, the links in question could be placed in a template and transcluded onto the category page.)
As usual (unlike with  shown under "Related Changes". Pages you are watching are bolded on the list (this can be helpful for finding which pages in a given category you have on your watchlist).
"Related Changes" can be used to find pages which have recently been added to a category (unless they were added through modification of a template; then  is another external tool to watch category membership changes.
The  is installed on Wikia.
 provides an alphabetic list of all categories, with the number of members of each; this number does not include the content of the subcategories, but it includes the subcategories themselves, i.e., each counting as one.
The above list contains all categories that have members, regardless of whether they have corresponding category pages. To list all existing category pages (regardless of whether they have members), use .
As described at  returns the number of pages in "Category:Example". Each subcategory counts as one page; pages in subcategories are not counted.
The page  enables you to see the tree structure of a category (its subcategories, their subcategories and so on; the display of files and other member pages is optional).
The  can be used to display such a tree on any page. (This is sometimes done on the category page itself, if the category is split over multiple screens, to make all subcategories available on every screen.) The basic syntax is
to display just the subcategory tree, and
to display member pages as well.
 will render charts of the tree structure.
You may also use , instead.
Warning:
Raw information about the members of a category, their sortkeys and timestamps (time when last added to the category) can be obtained from the , using a query of the form:
Listings of up to 500 members are possible. If there are more members then the results will include text near the end like this: .
This can be added to the previous one, without quotation marks, for the next page of members: .
See also .
See also .
The easiest way to find relevant articles for a new category or missing entries in an existing one is by finding the most relevant  can be used.
More relevant articles may also be found linked in a category's main article and the articles already featured in the category − especially in their  sections (if existent) and the automatically suggested "RELATED ARTICLES" below them.
Furthermore a category's superordinate categories often feature articles that should be subcategorized to the category.
Other ways to find relevant articles include  to them.
Lastly the most effective way of finding entries is using the ""-tool on the category's main article.
