				
To start, click on what you need assistance with below, or search all the help pages using the search box to the right. You may also browse the .

The  contain the most commonly sought information about Wikipedia.
For simple searches, there is a search box at the top of every page. Type what you are looking for in the box. Partial matches will appear in a dropdown list. Select any page in the list to go to that page. Or, select the magnifying glass "Go" button, or press .
There are other ways to browse and explore Wikipedia articles; many can be found at  for cautions about Wikipedia's limitations.
Contributing is easy: see  can remind you of basic wiki markup.
.
If you feel someone is bullying you or if you don't understand why your edits are being reverted, you can ask for help at the . Volunteers will respond as soon as possible.
If you're looking for places you can help out, the .

If you spot a problem with an article, 
If you don't feel ready to fix the article yourself, please post a message on the article's  article page.
Alternatively you can .
Check  will walk you through creating the article.
Once you have created an article, see ).
For contributing images, audio or video files, see the  will guide you through that process.
If . Volunteers there will attempt to answer your questions on any topic, or point you towards the information you need.
For your convenience, answers have been recorded for the most .
You can find also .
You can ask questions about using Wikipedia at the . Volunteers will respond as soon as possible.
Or  and a volunteer will visit you there!
You can get live help with editing in the .
For help with technical issues, ask at 
A .
All Wikipedia pages, including articles and user pages alike, have a corresponding Talk page. To switch to the current page's Talk page, click on the "Talk" tab above the page's title. At the very top of the page there is always a link to .
All content and conduct issues should be discussed at either the article's or user's Talk page before .
You can {{ that user.


