.
Before version 2.0 of JavaFX, developers used a statically typed, declarative language called .

On desktops, JavaFX supports .


Sun Microsystems licensed a custom  and is available as part of the JavaFX SDK 1.3 Release.
JavaFX 2.x platform includes the following components:
JavaFX Mobile was the implementation of the JavaFX platform for .
An independent application platform built on Java, JavaFX Mobile is capable of running on multiple mobile operating systems, including .
JavaFX Mobile was publicly available as part of the JavaFX 1.1 release announced by  on February 12, 2009.
Sun planned to enable out-of-the-box support of JavaFX on the devices by working with handset manufacturers and mobile operators to preload the JavaFX Mobile runtime on the handsets. JavaFX Mobile running on an Android was demonstrated at ) were announced at the JavaFX Mobile launch in February, 2009.
JavaFX Script, the scripting component of JavaFX, began life as a project by 
 Worldwide Java Developer conference on May 2007.
In May 2008 Sun Microsystems announced plans to deliver JavaFX for the browser and desktop by the third quarter of 2008, and JavaFX for mobile devices in the second quarter of 2009. Sun also announced a multi-year agreement with .
Major releases since JavaFX 1.1 have a release name based on a street or neighborhood in 
On December 4, 2008 Sun released JavaFX 1.0.2
JavaFX for mobile development was finally made available as part of the JavaFX 1.1 release (named Franca) announced officially on February 12, 2009.
JavaFX 1.2 (named Marina
JavaFX 1.3 (named Soma
This version was released on August 21, 2010. This release introduced:
This version (named Presidio) was released on October 10, 2011. This release introduced:
Various improvements have been made within the JavaFX libraries for multithreading. The Task APIs have been updated to support much more concise threading capabilities (i.e. the JavaTaskBase class is no longer necessary since all the APIs are in Java, and the requirement to have a callback interface and Java implementation class are no longer necessary). In addition, the scene graph has been designed to allow scenes to be constructed on background threads and then attached to "live" scenes in a  manner.
On May 26, 2011, Oracle released the JavaFX 2.0 Beta. The beta release was only made available for 32 and 64 bit versions of Microsoft Windows XP, Windows Vista and Windows 7. An Early Access version for  was also available for members of the JavaFX Partner Program at the time, while Linux support was planned for a future release of JavaFX. JavaFX 2.0 was released with only Windows support. Mac OS X support was added with JavaFX 2.1. Linux Support was added with JavaFX 2.2 .
JavaFX 2.0 makes use of a new declarative XML language called 
On April 27, 2012, Oracle released version 2.1 of JavaFX,
On August 14, 2012, Oracle released version 2.2 of JavaFX,
JavaFX 2.2 adds new packaging option called Native Packaging, allowing packaging of an application as a "native bundle". This gives users a way to install and run an application without any external dependencies on a system JRE or FX SDK.
As of Oracle Java SE 7 update 6 and Java FX 2.2, JavaFX is bundled to be installed with Oracle Java SE platform.
JavaFX is now part of the JRE/JDK for 
JavaFX 8 adds several new features, including:
JavaFX 9 features are currently centered on extracting some useful private APIs from the JavaFX code to make these APIs public:
Oracle also announced in November 2012 the open sourcing of 
The following is a rather simple JavaFX-based program. It displays a window (a ) containing a button.
As of March 2014 JavaFX is deployed on 
There are various licenses for the modules that compose the JavaFX runtime:
During development, 
At 
In December 2012, new portions of the JavaFX source code have been Open-Sourced by Oracle:
