A , or a stand-alone tool for testing applets. Java applets were introduced in the first version of the Java language, which was released in 1995.
Java applets are usually written in Java, but other languages such as  may be used as well.
Java applets run at very fast speeds and, until 2011, they were many times faster than 
Since Java's .


The Applets are used to provide interactive features to web applications that cannot be provided by 
An applet can also be a text area only; providing, for instance, a cross-platform 
Pages coded in HTML may embed parameters within them that are passed to the applet. Because of this, the same applet may have a different appearance depending on the parameters that were passed.
As applets were available before 
Java applets are executed in a .
A Java applet extends the class . As applet inherits from container, it has largely the same user interface possibilities as an ordinary Java application, including regions with user specific visualization.
The first implementations involved downloading an applet class by class. While classes are small files, there are often many of them, so applets got a reputation as slow-loading components. However, since  were introduced, an applet is usually delivered as a single file that has a size similar to an image file (hundreds of kilobytes to several megabytes).
The  from where the applet executable has been downloaded is the only domain to which the usual (unsigned) applet is allowed to communicate. This domain can be different from the domain where the surrounding HTML document is hosted.
Java  are backwards-compatible, allowing one to write code that runs both on current and on future versions of the Java virtual machine.
Many Java developers, blogs and magazines are recommending that the  Java Web Start allows the launching of unmodified applet code, which then runs in a separate window (not inside the invoking browser).
A  is sometimes informally compared to be "like" a server-side applet, but it is different in its language, functions, and in each of the characteristics described here about applets.
The applet can be displayed on the web page by making use of the deprecated  tags also support loading of the serialized applets that start in some particular (rather than initial) state. Tags also specify the message that shows up in place of the applet if the browser cannot run it due to any reason.
However, despite  to launch applets with cross platform workarounds.
The Java browser plug-in relies on 
The following example illustrates the use of Java applets through the java.applet package. The example also uses classes from the Java " as output.
Simple applets are shared freely on the Internet for customizing applications that support 
After  tag. For example:
When the page is accessed it will read as follows:
To minimize download time, applets can be delivered in the form of a , the following embedding code could be used instead:
Applet inclusion is described in detail in Sun's official page about the APPLET tag.
A Java applet can have any or all of the following advantages:
A Java applet may have any of the following disadvantages compared to other client-side web technologies:
 has made considerable efforts to ensure compatibility is maintained between Java versions as they evolve, enforcing Java portability by law if required. Oracle seems to be continuing the same strategy.
The 1997 lawsuit,
Microsoft continued to ship its own unmodified Java virtual machine. Over the years it became extremely outdated yet still default for Internet Explorer. A later study revealed that applets of this time often contain their own classes that mirror 
Google has developed its own 
There are two applet types with very different security models: signed applets and unsigned applets.
Limits on unsigned applets are understood as "draconian": of the calling code to be sure the call is not coming from an improper location.
As with any complex system, many security problems have been discovered and fixed since Java was first released. Some of these (like the Calendar serialization security bug)
Some studies mention applets crashing the browser or overusing 
The unsigned applet can also try to download malware hosted on originating server. However it could only store such file into a temporary folder (as it is transient data) and has no means to complete the attack by executing it. There were attempts to use applets for spreading Phoenix and Siberia exploits this way, but these exploits do not use Java internally and were also distributed in several other ways.
A signed applet
Self-signed applets, which are applets signed by the developer themselves, may potentially pose a security risk; java plugins provide a warning when requesting authorization for a self-signed applet, as the function and safety of the applet is guaranteed only by the developer itself, and has not been independently confirmed. Such self-signed certificates are usually only used during development prior to release where third-party confirmation of security is unimportant, but most applet developers will seek third-party signing to ensure that users trust the applet's safety.
Java security problems are not fundamentally different from similar problems of any client-side scripting platform components.
As of approximately Jan 1 2014, self-signed and unsigned applets are no longer accepted by the commonly available java plugins or java web start. Consequently, developers who wish to deploy java applets have no alternative but to acquire trusted certificates from commercial sources.
Alternative technologies exist (for example,  is an extension of the Java platform and may also be viewed as an alternative.
