The  open source platform for financial services. Its goal is to speed the elimination of poverty by enabling financial service providers to more effectively and efficiently deliver responsible financial services to the world's 2.5 billion poor and unbanked.


Development of the software began as an initiative of the Grameen Foundation in 2004. At the Grameen Foundation, James Dailey and Tapan Parikh realized that the software being used by most microfinance institutions (MFIs) was outdated, expensive or otherwise fell short. James and Tapan brainstormed something new: an open-source software that launched as Mifos in 2006. The name "Mifos" originally came from an acronym "MIcro Finance Open Source", but is now used as the brand, rather than an acronym. Mifos existed within Grameen Foundation until 2011, when it was decided that Mifos would split off to be an independent, open-source entity.
On June 1, 2011, Grameen Foundation announced that it would be ending its direct involvement with the Mifos Initiative and transitioning the project to its own organization, the Mifos Initiative, which now controls the Mifos and MIfos X projects.
The MifosX community includes developers, implementers, and users from various countries who collaborate through , and annual conferences.
Every year, MifosX developers and users from around the world gather to help shape the vision for MifosX. The summit is open to the public and has conferences, exhibitions and other audience-oriented events. The 2012 summit was held in  in the month of October. Held in Kuampala, Uganda, the 2014 Summit was a four-day event with a large focus on hands-on training for partners and users, collaborative tech sessions for contributors, &amp; educational sessions led by external experts from the fin-tech &amp; financial inclusion sector. It was Mifos' third annual summit, and aimed to expand and grow in the East African community.
MifosX has also participated in several other independent events. In 2013, Mifos has participated in , held in Dubai, UAE.
Mifos has a team of business and technical advisors which are called upon for visionary thinking, critical insight, and industry expertise. These include Steve Thomson (Financial Services Advisor), Bryan Barnett (Business Advisor), and Brian Behlendorf (Technical Advisor).
India
